# Distributed-Systems

All devices from phones (and some watches) to supercomputers are connected to the Internet or other communication networks. On the other hand, we have problems that are too large for any one device -- we need to involve multiple devices/machines to solve such problems. Distributed systems principles and methods are crucial for tackling such a task. Networking provides the communication infrastructure, Algorithms/Data-structures/Databases the computational techniques but Distributed Systems provide the glue that holds everything together under mildly or harshly adversarial conditions. This repository will be focused on tackling the challenges that arise in a principled manner.

Modern computers resemble a lot more a distributed system that they do a traditional, uni-core, system. Methods and techniques to deal with the distributed system challenges are very useful for multi-core programming as well.
I have used F# for implementing these distributed systems projects. F# is a modern, functional programming language designed for the .NET framework. Since the .NET framework has been ported to Linux and Mac, it is now a viable way to write large, cross-platform, distributed applications. As opposed to C#, F# is similar to OCAML and will teach you the benefits of using a functional programming language vs the imperative languages (Java, C, C++, C#).

In order to implement the distributed systems project, I have used the AKKA.NET framework, specifically, the AKKA "actor model". AKKA was first developed or Scala but was later ported to Java, C# and F#. The actor model is itself very different from other concurrency models. It will feel weird at the beginning but, as you will discover, it is very powerful and will allow you to write distributed systems that are much more complicated than what you could write in an imperative language using threads. 
